README.md, before:

# A read-only Ruby client for WP-API v2

This unambitious client provides read-only access for WP-API v2.

It supports authentication via OAuth or Basic Auth.

It can make concurrent requests.

It does not support comments, users or POST requests.

It requires **Ruby 2.3** and is tested against WP 4.4, 4.5 (WP-API 2.0b12) and 4.5.3 (WP-API 2.0b13).

**NB** If you would like to use **2.0beta13** and up _and_ access post metadata,
read the _postmeta_ section in _Testing and Compatibility_, below.

## Installation

```ruby
gem install wp-api-client
```

And

```ruby
require 'wp_api_client'
```

## Usage examples

#### Set up the client and get some posts

```ruby
# create a client

WpApiClient.configure do |api_client|
  api_client.endpoint = 'http://example.com/wp-json/wp/v2'
end

@api = WpApiClient.get_client

# get some posts
posts = @api.get('custom_post_type/') # or "posts/" etc
# => <WpApiClient::Collection:0x007fed432a5660 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...

posts.map { |p| puts p.title }
# Custom Post Type 99
# Custom Post Type 98
# Custom Post Type 97

term = @posts.first.terms.first
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::Term:0x007fed42b3e458 @resource={"id"=>2...
```

#### Navigate between posts, terms and taxonomies

```ruby
term.taxonomy
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::Taxonomy:0x007f9c2c86f1a8 @resource={"name"=>"Custom taxonomy"...

term.posts
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x007fd65d07d588 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...

# term.posts("custom_post_type").first.terms("category").first.taxonomy... etc etc etc
```

#### Pagination

```ruby
posts = @api.get('posts', page: 2)

posts.count
# => 10

posts.total_available
# => 100

next_page = @api.get(posts.next_page)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x00bbcafe938827 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...

page_after_that = @api.get(next_page.next_page)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x00bbcafe938827 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...
```

### Relationships

By default the client makes requests with `_embed=true` attached. This means that
associated objects that permit embedding will appear in the response. For example, if
you request a post, the post's author will appear in full alongside so you don't
have to make another request to get it.

The client is intelligent enough to figure out whether it can read the content
from an embedded response or if another request is necessary. If you do not want to
request embedded resources by default, you can change `embed` to `false` when you
configure the client.

#### Defining relationships

The [REST API docs](http://v2.wp-api.org/extending/linking/) invite you to define
custom relationships to go alongside "http://api.w.org/term" etc.

For example, let's say you have a `person` post type and a post-to-post relation
defined through meta and exposed in the REST API like this:

```php
add_filter( 'rest_prepare_king', function( $data, $king ) {
	if( $king->queen ) {
		$data->add_link(
			'http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage',
			rest_url( '/wp/v2/person/'.$king->queen ),
			['embeddable' => true]
		);
	}
	return $data;
}, 10, 2);
```

This will cause the `http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage` relation to be reflected
in your `_links` property when you call up the King from the REST API.

But you'll get an error if you try to query this relationship using the client.

```ruby
king = @api.get('person/1')
queen = king.relations("http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage").first
# => throws WpApiClient::RelationNotDefined
```

The solution is to register the relationship on configuration:

```ruby
WpApiClient.configure do |c|
  c.define_mapping("http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage", :post)
end

...

king = @api.get('person/1')
queen = king.relations("http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage").first
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::Post:0x007fed42b3e458 @resource={"id"=>2...
```

There is currently support for `:post_type`, `:post`, `:term` and `:meta` (key/value) relations.

#### Loading a taxonomy via a slug

WP-API returns an array even if there's only one result, so you need to be careful here

```ruby
term = @api.get('custom_taxonomy', slug: 'term_one').first
taxonomy_name = term.taxonomy.name
posts = term.posts
```

#### OAuth

Provide a symbol-keyed hash of `token`, `token_secret`, `consumer_key` and `consumer_secret` on configuration.

```ruby
WpApiClient.configure do |api_client|
  api_client.oauth_credentials = oauth_credentials_hash
end

client = WpApiClient.get_client
```

#### Basic Auth

Provide a symbol-keyed hash of `username` and `password` on configuration.

```ruby
WpApiClient.configure do |api_client|
  api_client.basic_auth = {username: 'miles', password: 'smile'}
end

client = WpApiClient.get_client
```

## Concurrency

WP-API is _slow_: a typical request takes 0.5s. To mitigate this, I recommend
caching all your responses sensibly, and when you need to fetch, do so concurrently
as far as is possible.

```ruby
results = []
client.concurrently do |api|
  results << api.get('post/1')
  results << api.get('post/2')
  results << api.get('post/3')
end
results
# => [#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post>, #<WpApiClient::Entities::Post, #<WpApiClient::Entities::Post>]
```

## Testing and compatibility

This library comes with VCR cassettes recorded against a local WP installation
running WP-API v2-beta12. It is not tested with other versions.

If you want to make your own VCR cassettes, use [these scripts](https://github.com/duncanjbrown/WP-REST-Test).

To run the tests, invoke `rspec`.

The repo contains cassettes built from different versions of WP. To run against
these cassettes specify WP_VERSION at the CLI.

```sh
WP_VERSION=4.4 rspec
WP_VERSION=4.5 rspec
WP_VERSION=4.5.3 rspec
WP_VERSION=4.5.3_b13 rspec
```

### Postmeta

Metadata discovery was removed from WP-API in 2.0 beta-13 and you
need to restore it manually. [More details](https://github.com/WP-API/wp-api-meta-endpoints/issues/12).

## Structure

### Public Objects

#### `WpApiClient::Client`

Accepts a `WpApiClient::Connection` and exposes a `#get` method.

Pass a URL into `#get` and it will do its best to return usable data.

The second parameter accepts an optional hash of query params.

#### `WpApiClient::Connection`

Initialize with an API endpoint like `http://localhost:8080/wp-json/wp/v2`, then
pass into a new client. Faraday options might be pulled out of here in the future.

### Internal Objects

#### `WpApiClient::Collection`

Wraps a set of `WpApiClient::Entities` in an `Enumerable` interface and provides `next_page`
and `previous_page` methods. Pass these into `@api` and it will give you back the
data you want

```ruby
next_page = @api.get(posts.next_page)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x00bbcafe938827 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...
```

#### `WpApiClient::Entities::Base`

Base class for `Post`, `Term`, `Image` and `Taxonomy`, so far. Not all methods are implemented.

## Other

Thanks [WP-API](https://github.com/WP-API/WP-API)!

Commit message:

Update README.md for User entity

README.md, after:

# A read-only Ruby client for WP-API v2

This unambitious client provides read-only access for WP-API v2.

It supports authentication via OAuth or Basic Auth.

It can make concurrent requests.

It does not support update or create actions. Or comments.

It requires **Ruby 2.3** and is tested against WP 4.4, 4.5 (WP-API 2.0b12) and 4.5.3 (WP-API 2.0b13).

**NB** If you would like to use **2.0beta13** and up _and_ access post metadata,
read the _postmeta_ section in _Testing and Compatibility_, below.

## Installation

```ruby
gem install wp-api-client
```

And

```ruby
require 'wp_api_client'
```

## Usage examples

#### Set up the client and get some posts

```ruby
# create a client

WpApiClient.configure do |api_client|
  api_client.endpoint = 'http://example.com/wp-json/wp/v2'
end

@api = WpApiClient.get_client

# get some posts
posts = @api.get('custom_post_type/') # or "posts/" etc
# => <WpApiClient::Collection:0x007fed432a5660 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...

posts.map { |p| puts p.title }
# Custom Post Type 99
# Custom Post Type 98
# Custom Post Type 97

term = @posts.first.terms.first
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::Term:0x007fed42b3e458 @resource={"id"=>2...

post = @api.get("posts/1")
author = post.author
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::User:0x007fed42b3e458 @resource={"id"=>2...
```

#### Navigate between posts, terms and taxonomies

```ruby
term.taxonomy
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::Taxonomy:0x007f9c2c86f1a8 @resource={"name"=>"Custom taxonomy"...

term.posts
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x007fd65d07d588 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...

# term.posts("custom_post_type").first.terms("category").first.taxonomy... etc etc etc
```

#### Authors

You can access a given post's author via the `author` property.

If you know the ID, you can access a given author's name, avatar etc by querying `users/{id}`.

If you would like to access posts grouped by author, you should approach from the
`post` end:

```ruby
@api.get('posts', author: 1)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x007fd65d07d588 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...
```

#### Pagination

```ruby
posts = @api.get('posts', page: 2)

posts.count
# => 10

posts.total_available
# => 100

next_page = @api.get(posts.next_page)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x00bbcafe938827 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...

page_after_that = @api.get(next_page.next_page)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x00bbcafe938827 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...
```

### Relationships

By default the client makes requests with `_embed=true` attached. This means that
associated objects that permit embedding will appear in the response. For example, if
you request a post, the post's author will appear in full alongside so you don't
have to make another request to get it.

The client is intelligent enough to figure out whether it can read the content
from an embedded response or if another request is necessary. If you do not want to
request embedded resources by default, you can change `embed` to `false` when you
configure the client.

#### Defining relationships

The [REST API docs](http://v2.wp-api.org/extending/linking/) invite you to define
custom relationships to go alongside "http://api.w.org/term" etc.

For example, let's say you have a `person` post type and a post-to-post relation
defined through meta and exposed in the REST API like this:

```php
add_filter( 'rest_prepare_king', function( $data, $king ) {
	if( $king->queen ) {
		$data->add_link(
			'http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage',
			rest_url( '/wp/v2/person/'.$king->queen ),
			['embeddable' => true]
		);
	}
	return $data;
}, 10, 2);
```

This will cause the `http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage` relation to be reflected
in your `_links` property when you call up the King from the REST API.

But you'll get an error if you try to query this relationship using the client.

```ruby
king = @api.get('person/1')
queen = king.relations("http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage").first
# => throws WpApiClient::RelationNotDefined
```

The solution is to register the relationship on configuration:

```ruby
WpApiClient.configure do |c|
  c.define_mapping("http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage", :post)
end

...

king = @api.get('person/1')
queen = king.relations("http://api.myuniqueuri.com/marriage").first
# => #<WpApiClient::Entities::Post:0x007fed42b3e458 @resource={"id"=>2...
```

There is currently support for `:post_type`, `:post`, `:term`, `:user` and `:meta` (key/value) relations.

#### Loading a taxonomy via a slug

WP-API returns an array even if there's only one result, so you need to be careful here

```ruby
term = @api.get('custom_taxonomy', slug: 'term_one').first
taxonomy_name = term.taxonomy.name
posts = term.posts
```

#### OAuth

Provide a symbol-keyed hash of `token`, `token_secret`, `consumer_key` and `consumer_secret` on configuration.

```ruby
WpApiClient.configure do |api_client|
  api_client.oauth_credentials = oauth_credentials_hash
end

client = WpApiClient.get_client
```

#### Basic Auth

Provide a symbol-keyed hash of `username` and `password` on configuration.

```ruby
WpApiClient.configure do |api_client|
  api_client.basic_auth = {username: 'miles', password: 'smile'}
end

client = WpApiClient.get_client
```

## Concurrency

WP-API is _slow_: a typical request takes 0.5s. To mitigate this, I recommend
caching all your responses sensibly, and when you need to fetch, do so concurrently
as far as is possible.

```ruby
results = []
client.concurrently do |api|
  results << api.get('post/1')
  results << api.get('post/2')
  results << api.get('post/3')
end
results
# => [#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post>, #<WpApiClient::Entities::Post, #<WpApiClient::Entities::Post>]
```

## Testing and compatibility

This library comes with VCR cassettes recorded against a local WP installation
running WP-API v2-beta12. It is not tested with other versions.

If you want to make your own VCR cassettes, use [these scripts](https://github.com/duncanjbrown/WP-REST-Test).

To run the tests, invoke `rspec`.

The repo contains cassettes built from different versions of WP. To run against
these cassettes specify WP_VERSION at the CLI.

```sh
WP_VERSION=4.4 rspec
WP_VERSION=4.5 rspec
WP_VERSION=4.5.3 rspec
WP_VERSION=4.5.3_b13 rspec
```

### Postmeta

Metadata discovery was removed from WP-API in 2.0 beta-13 and you
need to restore it manually. [More details](https://github.com/WP-API/wp-api-meta-endpoints/issues/12).

## Structure

### Public Objects

#### `WpApiClient::Client`

Accepts a `WpApiClient::Connection` and exposes a `#get` method.

Pass a URL into `#get` and it will do its best to return usable data.

The second parameter accepts an optional hash of query params.

#### `WpApiClient::Connection`

Initialize with an API endpoint like `http://localhost:8080/wp-json/wp/v2`, then
pass into a new client. Faraday options might be pulled out of here in the future.

### Internal Objects

#### `WpApiClient::Collection`

Wraps a set of `WpApiClient::Entities` in an `Enumerable` interface and provides `next_page`
and `previous_page` methods. Pass these into `@api` and it will give you back the
data you want

```ruby
next_page = @api.get(posts.next_page)
# => #<WpApiClient::Collection:0x00bbcafe938827 @resources=[#<WpApiClient::Entities::Post...
```

#### `WpApiClient::Entities::Base`

Base class for `Post`, `Term`, `Image` and `Taxonomy`, so far. Not all methods are implemented.

## Other

Thanks [WP-API](https://github.com/WP-API/WP-API)!
